Hello and welcome back to the course on Tablo.
And today we're talking about errors that you can get in maps and we're talking about some specific
areas which are related to data so let's have a look at that.
Here we've got the chart that we created last time and this is for the number of personal vehicles sold
in different regions.
Now we're going to go back to the data source and here you can see that we've got different regions
which are not recognized as a geographical location doesn't have this globe here because they are kind
of selected by us or by the person who was creating his daughters are so they're very specific.
But at the center of the countries are recognized as a geographical location because you can see this
globe here.
So we're going to take advantage of that and create a map.
So let's just create a new worksheet maybe this one will call something like relative
cars sold this what we will call map.
OK.
We'll get to take country and as we're used to we'll just drag it on to our work sheet and right away
we've got a map that came up and what we can do now is we will take vehicles sold and drag it into color.
And so now our map is colored based on number of vehicles.
And let's not forget right away with these time series not all the working with it we have to remember
that if we're not visualizing the time series we have to filter by it will take a year and put it into
a filter and maybe it'll just sit like 2005.
OK.
And we'll bring up a filter so Schalkwyk filter.
We obviously don't need all anymore and we'll just have a sliding scale so we can only select one year.
OK that's great but now have a look here at the bottom of the map you can see here.
Unknown.
What does that mean.
What does 6 unknown's mean.
Well let's click on it and click on it and it will come up.
Here it says that there are six values that have unknown geographic locations.
What do you want to do.
You can edit locations you can filter the data or you can show data at a default position so I don't
recommend data a default position or filter data.
That just means kind of exclude these values that are not recognized so we'll control that because we
don't want to exclude them right away.
We want to see if we can fix the error.
So here just go ahead and click Edit locations and right away at the top you can see the six locations
that have not been identified.
So let's go ahead and fix them up.
So Burkina Why has it not been identified.
Well let's try typing in Burkean and see what Tablo has several has Burkina Faso.
So let's click Burkina Faso and click OK.
And as you can see there somewhere there there are Burkean that has come up so it wasn't there so if
a person controls that it's not there because not recognized.
Now it has come out because Tablo knows where to put it.
It is displaying the name that we have in the Dahdah Burkina.
But he knows Taplin knows that this location is actually geocoder to the one we've selected.
All right so let's go for the next one.
Let's skip cango for now and let's go to Kazakhstan.
As you can see here it's kind of misspelled so it's actually Kazak stand ups.
So there's an H in there.
So we select that and you will see this bit over here.
Will come up so we'll click OK.
As you can see Kazakhstan has been recognized.
That's great.
So as we're slowly fixing up our map obviously Switzerland plus F.L. should be just Switzerland and
Tahiti in Tablo is French Polynesia.
And then Turkmenistan is an R in the word tour.
You see these are like Dahdah arrows that you might not pick up right away in your data preparation
phase.
So now you'll see all of these up here.
So there you go there's Turkmenistan's Switzerland appeared somewhere here and French Polynesia.
I'm not really sure where to find it right now.
But anyway so let's go back to the Unknowns.
Here you can see we've got Congo and it's unrecognized and if we start typing in Congo there's two types
of Congos Brazzaville and the other one can Shatha and we like right now I don't know which Congo this
Doughtery first so I can either investigate and find out where which Congo is the correct one.
Or if you don't have time or you don't really mind not having this element of dooring in his possession
you can just cancel that.
And this one unknown you can filter the data and just not have it at all.
So you know you can see that there's no Kongo illustrated on the map and yeah that's the other way of
doing it.
But I do encourage you to first check if you can fix up the data sometimes like we don't have an example
of this right now but sometimes you'll find that if you're dealing with cities and just say you're dealing
with cities in one country in the U.S. for instance and you drag them onto the map and you find that
nothing is shown on the map Well that's because you need to tell Tablo that you are dealing with the
U.S..
So if you have a field for us then you just create a hierarchy as we used to do.
That way everything we find or if there is no field for the US then map here you can when when you're
at a location you can just specify your actual country so you don't have to how you'll see how to do
that Tablo will actually prompt you here and allow you to specify the country you are working with.
So if you're working with us you just specify us and then Ill recognize the cities.
And that is because some some cities are duplicated in different countries so there is a mosque in Russia
and there's a mosque going in the U.S. and there's a Sydney in Australia and I think there's another
Sydney in the US and or Newcastle there's one in Australia and there's one in the UK so you need to
know which country it's dealing with if it can't only go by the city or the state.
So sometimes you have to supply that additional information of a slot in the door and the hierarchy
hasn't been created.
OK so that's what we've done.
What I wanted to show you here is that if you click through these years you can see how the number of
cars sold is changing through out our map and it'd be really cool to see this as a visual session.
So if if you're interested in.
I mean really cool to see this as an animation.
So I just wanted to give you a heads up.
I do have an advanced course on Tablo So if you're interested in things like animations and more advanced
topics and tabbouleh.
Make sure to check that out and that will help you take your tablet skills to a jet level.
But that's all for us for today.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.